.TH POLYPHONE "1" "September 3rd, 2019" "polyphone 2.4" "Polyphone Manual Page"

.SH NAME
\fBpolyphone\fP \- soundfont editor

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B polyphone
.br
.B polyphone
[\fIFILE\fR]
.br
.B polyphone
[\fIFILE_1\fR] [\fIFILE_2\fR] ...
.br
.B polyphone
-1 [\fB\-i\fR \fIINPUT_FILEPATH\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fIOUTPUT_DIR\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTPUT_NAME\fR]
.br
.B polyphone
-2 [\fB\-i\fR \fIINPUT_FILEPATH\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fIOUTPUT_DIR\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTPUT_NAME\fR] [\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIG\fR]
.br
.B polyphone
-3 [\fB\-i\fR \fIINPUT_FILEPATH\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fIOUTPUT_DIR\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTPUT_NAME\fR] [\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIG\fR]
.br
.B polyphone
-s [\fB\-i\fR \fIINPUT_FILEPATH\fR] [\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIG\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B polyphone
provides a simple and efficient interface for creating and editing .sf2 files. This software comprises tools to facilitate and automate the editing of different parameters, making it possible to handle a large amount of data.
.br
.PP
sf2, sf3, sfz (import / export), sfArk (import only) and GrandOrgue (import only) formats are supported. Command lines can be used to convert files, open Polyphone in synthesizer mode or reset configurations in case of trouble.
.br
.PP
More information can be found at https://www.polyphone.io .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \fBFILE\fR
Specifies the file to open when
.B polyphone
starts. Multiple files can be loaded if they are separated by spaces.
sf2 (version 2.01 or 2.04), sf3, sfz, sfArk (version 1 or 2) and GrandOrgue formats are supported.
.TP
.BR \fB-1\fR
Use
.B polyphone
to convert a file into the sf2 format.
.TP
.BR \fB-2\fR
Use
.B polyphone
to convert a file into the sf3 format.
.TP
.BR \fB-3\fR
Use
.B polyphone
to convert a file into the sfz format.
.TP
.BR \fB-s\fR
Open
.B polyphone
in synthesizer mode.
.TP
[\fB\-i\fR \fIINPUT_FILEPATH\fR]
Input file path to convert or open. The input file format must be sf2, sf3, sfz, sfArk or organ.
.TP
[\fB\-d\fR \fIOUTPUT_DIR\fR]
Output directory in which the input file will be converted. By default, this is the same directory than the input file.
.TP
[\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTPUT_NAME\fR]
Output name of the converted file. The extension will be automatically added depending on the conversion. By default, this is the same name than the input file.
.TP
[\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIG\fR]
Conversion configuration, the content being dependent on the conversion type.
.BR \fB-r\fR
Remove the existing configuration.
.br
.BR
 * 
.B sf2 conversion
.br
No configuration for this conversion.
.br
.BR
 * 
.B sf3 conversion
.br
The configuration is made of one character indicating the compression quality. '0' for low, '1' for medium and '2' for high quality. Default is '1'.
.br
.BR
 * 
.B sfz conversion
.br
The configuration is made of three characters. The first character is '1' if each preset must be prefixed by its preset number, '0' otherwise. The second character is '1' if a directory per bank must be created, '0' otherwise. The third character is '1' if the general midi classification must be used to sort presets, '0' otherwise. Default is '000'.
.br
.BR
 * 
.B synthesizer mode
.br
The configuration is made up of 3 parts separated by a '/'. The first part specifies the MIDI channel to be listened to, which can be a value from 1 to 16 or 'all'. The second part is 'on' or 'off' to enable playback of several presets at the same time. The third part is 'on', 'off' or 'toggle' to enable presets to be activated or deactivated by the lowest notes on the keyboard.
.SH EXAMPLES
 * Conversion from sfArk to sf2:
.br
.BR polyphone
-1 -i /path/to/file.sfArk
.br
.BR
 * Conversion from sf2 to sf3 (good quality):
.br
.BR polyphone
-2 -i /path/to/file.sf2 -c 2
.br
.BR
 * Conversion from sf3 to sfz (sub-directories for bank and gm classification):
.br
.BR polyphone
-3 -i /path/to/file.sf3 -c 011
.br
.BR
 * Open Polyphone in synthesizer mode, allowing use of the bass keys to select the ensemble to be played with a MIDI keyboard:
.br
.BR polyphone
-s -i /path/to/file.sf2 -c 'all/off/toggle'
.SH AUTHOR
Davy Triponney (davy.triponney@gmail.com)
